1. Always build the mobile web bundle first
Run this from the repo root:

npm run build:mobile-spa



That command uses the project’s build:mobile-spa script.

I ran it here and it completed successfully:

Testing

✅ npm run build:mobile-spa

This catches a lot of “white screen because production JS won’t compile” issues before Expo/EAS is involved.

2. Test the bundled web app in a browser
After building, serve the generated static bundle:

cd mobile/mobile/assets/www
python3 -m http.server 4174
Then open:

http://localhost:4174
Your sync script writes the production mobile SPA bundle to mobile/mobile/assets/www and explicitly checks that index.html exists.

If this is blank in a desktop browser too, open DevTools and check the console. That usually exposes the actual JS crash much faster than TestFlight.

3. Test the native iOS shell locally on a Mac
This is the main step that prevents wasting Expo cloud build credits.

From the mobile app folder:

cd mobile/mobile
npm run prebuild
npx expo run:ios --configuration Release
Why this matters:

npm run prebuild in the mobile app runs ./scripts/build-and-sync.sh --prebuild, which rebuilds/syncs the web bundle and then runs Expo prebuild.

The local Expo command builds and installs the native app using your local Xcode toolchain, instead of using EAS cloud credits.

Use --configuration Release because TestFlight is a release-style build, not a debug Metro/dev-server build.

Expo’s official docs also recommend local compilation with npx expo run:ios / npx expo run:android for local app builds, and note these commands compile and install the app locally. Expo local app development docs

If you want to choose a real plugged-in iPhone:

cd mobile/mobile
npx expo run:ios --configuration Release --device
4. Test the EAS production pipeline locally without cloud credits
If you specifically want to test the same EAS build process before using cloud credits, use EAS local build:

eas build --platform ios --profile production --local --output ./build/Trimswipe.ipa